-=Coinage as Contract=-
volume 1
by Maleos Ilindith

Introduction
In eras prior, currency held its place in the lesser races and bore little value within the walls of Haelun'or; however, in recent years, mali'aheral have adapted this foul tradition of regularly utilizing minas. Although citizens will surely see basic needs met, readily being able to acquire essential goods, no longer is it standard, say, for a blacksmith to fashion shears for an alchemist without an immediate or promised exchange in return. We no longer live in a society in which services are performed for the common good; instead, they are now performed for individual benefit. To further demonstrate this, we now have an auction house just next to the bank in which our own residents trade goods with one another for minas! We must not resemble the lesser races less we lose our position above them.

Although minas serve as an excelent intermediate for trade, 

Lesser races are hardly bound together, and unlike mali'aheral, outside of military force, base their power on access to capital. As I shall detail in this tome, this is rooted in the untrustworthiness of lessers, greed, and a desire for power. In subsequent volumes, I shall outline approaches for returning to the purity we once obtained as a nation.

Favors
Currency has historically not been a necessity within Haelun'or, for favors will surely be returned; outside of our nation, though, such expectations cannot be held, necessitating minas. As noted, although the proportion of lesser races within our city is historically low, we seem to use minas just like them at an alarming rate.

Greed
As is with the lesser races, gold and minas get their value not only from the promise of exchange for other goods but more significantly from the gold itself. Although mali'thill will outright deny gold, Minas receive a more favorable treatment.
Minas serve as a necessary evil outside of our city walls, for we cannot trust the lesser races; however, inside our city walls, how different is the exchange of goods and services for minas over gold? And when we auction goods, giving them to the highest bidder instead of the individual most in need, are we truly adhering to our ethics?

The call of money is a force on par with any school of magic, for why give the scholar with no access to cattle leather for bookbinding when you could instead sell it on the market and exchange the profit for any good anywhere in the realm? Moreover, having such a system generates an impulse to seek activities that return minas instead of nobler activities that reap benefits for society. Instead of writing literature for our library, it incentivizes writing for a singlular wealthy individual.

Power
Outside of greed, why might individuals continuously seek activities that inflate their wealth? Simply put, minas not only get their value from their golden desirability, but also from the ability to control others in commanding goods an services. Minas put the world at one's fingertips, fulfilling any potential desire if the price is high enough. This is the essence of power.

Power is an inherent desire that runs deep within most every creature, and while many have traditionally sought this power through governmental positions in aims of guiding one's people on the right path, the call of money satiates this desire in a far less pure manner that benefits a select few at the cost of society at large.

I have walked by a few of the mailboxes, and some in particular overflow with gold, emeralds, diamonds, and other gems; clearly, the call of money has tainted some of our residents.

Findings
As mali'thill, we need not deal with minas, for it shall only corrupt our kind into greed and disconnect us from one another. Additionally, it yields power to the most selfish and impure among us, muffling the selfless in Haelun'or. As a nation, we must curtail the usage of minas within our walls, for how can we turn away those with golden necklaces at the gates when we hoard troves of gold inside them?